# Foreword

Genius = work + luck
Happiness = work + luck + love + freedom

This book appeared in Hungarian in 1989.  In it, I described and
summarised my psychological and pedagogical experiments with my
daughters and 15 years of teaching experience.

I do not give a formula, only an overview.  I do not wish to persuade
anyone to raise a genius.  I wanted to show that it is possible to
raise geniuses.  I neither call on nor encourage anyone; everyone must
decide for themself what they wish to do.  I only pass on my system of
teaching and lead all along the path which I have walked, with the
certainty that it is not only possible but worthwhile to raise
geniuses, because they can and do become happy people.

My daughters have grown up.  Now they are already bringing up their
own children while having careers.  They want to raise them as
contented, creative and happy people, just as they themselves are.

Education through my ideas is good for the individual, and desirable
and useful for society.  A genius is a community oriented person;
what they create becomes a communal treasure.

Let us not be afraid to bring up our children with optimism and
courage (and without concern for material expense!).  Prodigies are
not miracles, but natural phenomena; indeed they must become natural
phenomena.   Parents and society are responsible for the development
of the capabilities of children.  A great number of geniuses are lost
as they themselves never find out what they would be capable of.

Our experiment, programme and way of life has already been repeated
many times spontaneously throughout history (see above all the
childhood of a genius).  We want only to make them known and aim
through that to elevate them to their theoretical height.

I wish you success in bringing up geniuses!

The Author, Budapest 2004.
